The Joe Rogan experience.
And so this strength and conditioning coach that you've been working with from
the beginning, give us, like, what is a regular routine for you?
Like what kind of does he have? Uh, Dr. Peak. Okay. So we just, um.
We started getting back in there, um, literally last week.
So.
He took a little time off. How's it? How's your hand?
That's the thing I free. I went and now the doctor's going, gonna hate me for.
That. So I had a cast.
On, so then I go to Vegas and, um, and I talked to the doctors,
you know, the UC doc and those guys in Vegas and you know, it's not broken,
you know, it's just, uh, an issue with the ligaments.
You can see it seeing this right hand right here at the bottom of thumb.
You could clearly see the ligaments and all working there,
but then here there's that bump in between.
So they don't come out as much and that's causing me. I don't have,
I didn't have, I don't have the strength, like, you know, being able to pull.
And this is a big part of my game is if I get around you, I get a body lock.
I don't care what you're doing. You're just not getting me off.
I just I've spent years just working on that grip to where you just not,
are you not letting me off until I let off?
And so now not being able to do that, but it's, it's healing fast.
And I was in Vegas and the doctor's like,
we can just cut the cast off and make you a hard removable one that I can take
off on and off. So I can shower,
because that was the thing you stuck in this cast for four weeks,
you can't really shower with it. You got to shower with your arm up in.
The air, on your handstand.
Itches. And you got just stick stuff in there. And psychologically,
I started getting a little anxiety with it too, cause it's like,
can't get this thing off my hand.
So sometimes I'm laying there.
I'm just like one it off of my hand and I can't get it off.
So is it a ligament tear?
Is that what? It's not a tear. They, they, um,
they thought it was a tear at the bottom, but no strength is coming back.
So it was a slowly, yeah,
it was like a really bad strain in that that bumper is still there for some
reason. So we're, we're working on it, I'm doing everything right.
And no fracture, which is good news. So I don't have to be out for.
Too long. Yeah. Yeah. Because you sent me the tape of like,
when you hurt in training, see it like, so it was one of those things where you,
you hit with the thumb. I, yeah, I hit it with my phone. Cause.
You know, when you got those big gloves on, you know,
you can't really make a full fist. Right. Especially when you have wraps,
so your hands kind of in there like this, so you throw a punch the wrong way,
or somebody comes into your own way. It's like, boom, you heard it. Yeah.
So I heard it at one of my gosh, what am I going to do now? You know?
So now everything's going through my head. I got this guy that's been talking.
For years. And everybody in the world is telling me, you have to kill this guy.
You can't be the, you can't lose to him. So now I'm.
Going through all this in my mind though, I can't be that guy.
I can't lose to that guy. I can't lose to that guy. And then it's like,
then I'm like, okay, no, it feels a little better. I'm going,
I'm going to spar hard. So I start sparring, boom, right away, hurt it again.
And I, a couple of times almost cry.
And you're getting a taped up part time. So getting a taped up even.
So it's still hurting. But then it gets to a point where I'm just like,
you got to block it out. You know, fights to fight. I got to block it out.
So I'm going to dress your room and train and everything's okay. I block it out.
Not even thinking about it and thinking about going to work.
And then I get in there and first round, I don't even remember.
I just remember throwing it. Boom. Something's wrong. Oh. And I'm just like,
okay, play it off, play it off. And then prostate Colby, like, you know,
he comes on and he's, you know.
He's doing his job. He's fighting me. He's in there landed strikes.
And I'm like.
Okay. You know, but at,
at some point I never thought I'm going to lose this fight because I never think
like that. It's like, oh, I'm not going to lose this fight.
Even if something's not going my way, I just I'm going to adapt.
Wasn't it like on the,
the score cards at the end of the fight were very close. Yeah.
I, I.
I knew it was close. Uh, I would, uh, cause it, for the first time ever,
I asked my coaches, did I win that round?
I've never in my career done that. I'm the type of guy.
Even when I was wrestling album,
the red type of wrestler who I like to run up the scoreboard.
I don't like the live and leave any doubt that I won that round.
I'm going to dominate that round. I'm going to make sure I won. So in my head,
I know I want, I don't need to ask for the first time in my career,
I went back to my, I went around that went around. But I,
even by me asking that I never thought, oh, I'm not going to finish this fight.
I always knew I was going to finish the fight. But I just was like, I was,
did I win that, that I win that, you know, I don't know why.
I don't know how or what, what was going on in my head.
But for some reason I asked, I was asking, so I knew the fight was close.
It wasn't.
Good fight, man. It was a good fight.
The thing about Colby is he tricks you into thinking.
He sucks because he's got a goofy suit on and he talks crazy.
And you know, he wears the maggot hat and all that stuff. But,
but then if you didn't see any of that,
if you just watched him fight you like that puts up pace on people. What?
He did a Robbie Lawler. I was like, good Lord.
Like nobody does that to Robbie Lawler. Like he put a pace on him.
He just stayed on him. Like guys have wrestled him before Robbie, you know,
like got a hold of them, dragged him down and tried to make it a, you know,
a stick, you know, try to stall them out. That's not what Colby did.
Colby just stuck on them like glue and just put that pace on him.
Yeah. I mean, he really, he really, he really showed, you know,
like how good he is. And I mean, I'm, I, I give respect to respect to you.
I'm not, I'm no hater. You know, I know this kid could fight.
I know he was good. I knew he was tough. And I knew he was a competitor as well.
He's always been a competitor.
I knew guys that weren't wrestling teams with this guy, you know,
besides John Jones, I knew other guys, you know,
that I'm good friends with that wrestled with him.
So I've always known that he was a competitor that he was going to come out and
try to compete, you know, but I, like I said, I, I just mentally,
I think I'm just on a different than these guys.
Just because everything that I've been through that I've done in my life has
shaped me into the man that I am so mentally I'm,
I'm just on a different level than him. Well, you have to have that attitude.
Right? Yeah. And I just, I felt it.
I knew it and I felt it even, and now so more so than ever,
because now you've.
Got all the fans, but you know, on what he's got his fans,
you've got, everyone has fans that are going to talk.
Well, there was the first time that you had a close fight in the UFC,
which is kind of crazy. I mean, you think about your career. It's pretty nuts.
I mean,
you win the title over one of the best welterweights of all time at Tyron
Woodley and you just dominate him. Right. You think about all the other guys,
Dosantos all those guys you smashed and wa I mean, that's,
you had a crazy run up to the title and then a crazy title winning
effort. And then this was the first time we saw you in like a very close fight.
Yeah. I mean, uh, a test to him too,
like he's a tough guy at the end of the day, you know,
to make fantastic fights.
You gotta have the right dance partner and Frazier needed Ali.
We need each other. And he was the right dance partner.
And to be honest with you, you know,
if I didn't take too much out of him because each fight takes something from
you, you know, internally. So if I didn't take too much from him,
I think I might see him again, to be honest, because like,
it's clear that we are the two best guys in the division. And so, yeah. I mean,
I look forward to seeing them again. I think.
You guys will see each other again. Yeah.
And some guys get really wrapped up in the fear.
Of looking bad. Yes. The looking.
Bad is just like hanging over their head. I'm about to get knocked out.
Everyone's going to laugh. Um, that's very fun of me. They're going to with me.
That's very rude. Can you imagine me losing a Colby come attention? Ooh.
That would have been the biggest one, right? It was so much. Oh my God.
It was so.
Bad. Ma I'm telling you I'm in different cars and I mean, Abu Dhabi.
People run them to me in the mall, man. I can't wait for you to kill this car.
I go, I'm in Brazil. Oh my God. I can't wait for you to kill this guy.
I'm in Dominican Republic. They can't even speak English, but they're like,
I can't wait for you to chill bro everywhere.
So I can imagine me going out there and what I was feeling
I had to really, I took advice from Rashad.
I had to really make friends with that, feeling it and accept it. Well, man,
at the weigh-ins when Susie painted the Nigerian.
Flag on your face and you're staring them down and you just had this big smile
on your face, you look so calm. And I was like that, guy's ready.
But you were so composed at the way. And I was like, there's no.
There was no you. There was no, no emotions.
You just had a big smile on your face.
Yeah. Um, I mean, it's, uh, at some point you get to the word,
it's no longer the talk and like, nah, I get it.
You got to sell a fight and there, you know, this and that,
but I try to stay as true to myself as possible.
Like obviously I understand people want to be entertaining and I'm going to do
the best that I can now of selling a fight without going too far out of
myself. But when that,
when that contract is signed and I know that I have to go in there and take care
of business, there's no more of that. Like I have to be myself.
I have to be real. And this guy said a lot of things that were very,
very personal. You know, a lot of things about my previous manager, you know,
a lot of things about my team, my current manager, you know,
and a lot of things about my money, my family and my situation, as well as,
as far as my, my father, all of that,
to where it really hit home to where it's the best way for me to teach you a
lesson. It's not, by going in there fighting angry.
I have to go in there being calculated, like my normal self,
and really teach you a lesson because anything you say can and will be
used against you inside that article. What was.
He saying to you? He was talking to you. I couldn't hear it.
Cause it was so loud in that or the arena when you were weighing in,
what was he saying to you?
Ah, thank you. Saying I'll be ready. Oh, should hope you're ready tomorrow.
Junior hope you're ready. Hope you're ready. I'm I'm I'm coming.
Hope you're ready tomorrow. I'm coming. He.
Seems so calm too. He had a big smile on his face, but.
Uh, but you know, when I look at these guys,
I'm looking for more than just that, like I'm reading his body,
I'm reading everything and he's looking at me the whole time and he did the
best. Cause I know he's a competitor. He did the best he could to hide his fear.
You know? And, and I, I was afraid to, I'm afraid. I'm afraid.
Every one of these fights you, you gotta be afraid, but I make friends with it.
I'm okay with being afraid. I'm not, I'm not worried about it.
I am okay with that. So I'm watching him and there's,
there's a moment if you see that way in video, we, the stair now, when you're,
you know, after we stare down, we stare down and I'm watching them.
I'm watching them the whole time,
just watching him and he's doing this good job. He's trying to stay on me,
stay on me, stay on me, stay on me.
And then he looks away and I just read his body. I'm just like, okay,
I know how worried he is. I know how worried he is. Isn't it weird? Like,
you know.
That your opponent is worried, you know, everyone's worried, right.
Everyone's nervous, but you've got to kind of see it.
Cause you could yourself in your mind that this guy's not even scared.
I'm scared and he's not. Yes. You can mind yourself. Even though, you know,
it's not even like everyone before a cage fight has to be.
Absolutely.
And, and um, and yeah, it it's weird,
but cause I'm looking at him and I'm studying him and I'm seeing the level of
fear that he has. And you know,
I'm ex I'm trying to assess the level of fear, whether it's,
it's something I can deal with or something that I'm just gonna think,
going to have no choice.
You know, he looked pretty confident, confident.
But you know, I can see where,
how superior I was in there to him, my level of fear and his level of fear.
I can see where they were at because, and,
and you gotta be mindful of his level of fear as well because you,
occasionally animal is very dangerous animal, you know? And so I can,
I'm seeing them. And that's kinda how, the way he, that was that went.
I watched that fight again the other day. Um,
I was playing it in the gym while I was working. I was like, that is.
A crazy pace. Like.
You came out, guns blazing. I mean, it,
in my opinion is one of the very best welterweight title fights ever.
I mean, it was, it was apple. I'm watching.
The paints. Yeah. They're watching, I'm watching, I'm watching, I'm watching,
I'm watching, I'm watching it, keep it on him and keep it on him. I'm watching,
I'm watching, I'm watching him. Boom. It looks away.
Well, he had to, I was talking to him. He's got it in your head, man.
He let down. I I'm.
I'm I'm like, I'm like, oh, there was that just a little moment.
Just to read his spirit. I felt his spirit at that moment. And I'm just like,
uh, it's not the same. It's not the same. Like I'm going to hurt this kid.
It's not the same, but he's going to come out. He's going to fight,
but I'm going to hurt him. You know, at no point in that fight,
did I think I wasn't gonna hurt. Yeah.
When you dropped him in, in the final round, when you stopped the fight,
when you, when you dropped him, you saw him go down.
What was going through your head?
I was like, oh, I'm hitting now. I'm hitting. Cause I, you know, when you,
when you landed, you landed punch good. You don't really feel it.
And so at that moment I was kind of clipping him.
I was connecting everything I clipped him with was he was feeling the power at
that point. You know, I I'd heard him a few times before,
but everyone kept talking about his pace, his pace and this and that.
And I carry power all the way throughout. That's how I train I,
the power is going to be the same, the way I hit mitts with my coaches,
Henry Hooft and all these it's all the same. It's not all tap,
tap, tap, tap, tap here. And then a little bit of power here. Tap, tap, tap.
Tell you a little bit. Yes. I know how to do that. I know how to mix it up.
Like boxers. Do they know how to put a little bit into this,
distract you with this, then touch you with that. I know how to do that too,
but I carry the power all the way throughout. So by the fifth round,
when I hit him with the, I think, um,
I hit him with a body and I hit him a punch. I hit him with the, uh,
right hand that stunned him and he stumbled back. And at that point I was in,
I wasn't just in the driver's seat. I'm like, okay, I'm feeling him.
And then I hit him with a left foot. Boom. That hurt him. I could feel everyone.
They heard them because I'm not barely feeling the punches here.
And then when I put that Canon on his face, boom, and he went down and was like,
oh, stay relaxed, stay relaxed. We got time. You know,
the goal is to get him out of here. I'm not going to jump on him.
Cause I've made that mistake before I've dropped the guy down, jumped on him,
going crazy. Trying to get him out of there. Let me stay on him,
just stay relaxed and I'm going to get him none.
And at that point I was just in,
you get to a certain zone to where you see him coming and he's just like punches
to going by. And then I land the other one that he drives and I'm just like,
okay, it's time to get on him and finish him here. I recognize.
That something was wrong with his jaw. Boom. There.
It is. No, I, I, and I, I watched the fight over in my coat and my, uh,
coroner told me that his jaw was broken. I didn't even hear them. Boom,
that second right-hand I didn't even hear them.
Were you surprised the way they stopped the fight? No. No, but you know, and I,
and this is, this is what I'm saying is, um, I got to say,
I was a little surprised when I looked at this. Yeah. I mean, you,
you think about it like that. And it's like, Aw, man, he got up right,
right away. You know, like it was, might've been an early stoppage.
But then if you, if you watch the last,
like that 30 seconds before that you see the shots that he was taken,
like, I hit him with that right hand. Boom. He stumbled back, almost fell down.
I was wondering if they knew that his jaw was broken.
I mean, that's a referee. The referee might, you know, you know, I,
but I personally didn't.
But if you see them take shots like that and you just got dropped twice and now
you're holding onto a leg. And now this is just an ear Muff.
You're trying to protect yourself and I'm having no sign of stopping, you know,
that's the referee's job to get in there and stop you. You know?
And I know some guys are like, oh,
well they should have let him go to title five.
That should have let him get knocked out completely or this and that. You know?
But it's the ref. Referee's not doing his job of protecting you. If,
if that happens. It's okay.
Interesting that you said every fight takes a little bit out of you and that's,
I think that's important for people to hear because I, you know,
we've all seen fighters and you know,
like we go to boxing and perfect examples of Meldrick Taylor.
When he fought Julio, Cesar Chavez. Did you ever see that fight? No, no.
Tremendous fight. Meldrick Taylor was winning the fight,
but Chavez just kept the pressure on him. Kept the pressure on,
was beaten his body beaten his body, kept the pressure on him.
And then finally with the like,
literally I think the fight was stopped with four seconds to go. Wow. Yeah.
Richard Steele waved it off and Meldrick Taylor stood up and he talked to him,
but you could tell him I was detail was out of it. And they stopped the fight.
Mel's retail was never the same again. It was never the same again.
Terry Norris dark dream. After that, he started slurring his words.
It was real bad. It was like that one fight took everything out of him.
Yeah. There's a, there's some people that don't really see is, I mean,
everyone's attracted to violence. Everybody wants to see the violence.
They want to see you get hit. And once you hit someone,
they want to see the blood, you know,
but people don't see what this takes away from your spirit. Each fight,
win or lose.
It takes something from you like only myself and Colby,
Covington are gonna know what that fight did to us. Now, could I do it?
I can do it again next week. I have no problem doing it yet,
but each and every fight takes something away from you, but.
It's balanced out more. So for sure if you take a beating, right. But if,
is it balanced out by hard training and recuperation to where you can
maintain the exact same level or is every fight you're like slightly
less good than you were before,
but you're so much better that you still have enough leeway.
That know that as far as the preparation and the training, all of that stuff.
Yeah. That, that accounts. So yeah, that takes, it takes it away from you.
But I'm saying the act of actually fighting the fight from your
spirit, from your energy that takes away from you because so you.
Mean like your ability to get up for it. Yes.
Your, your, your ability to, to fight another man,
your ability to that provider, the fight, another person that, that spirit,
that killer spirit, it takes away from you and it, and it could add to it, it,
it changes that spirit in some shape, form or fashion.
It absolutely does it. It's there's this video. Um,
a while back, I forget the fighter, uh,
he was a wrestler turned fighter and he's like bleach blonde hair.
I forget his name. But I think the video was caught on faded glory.
I think USA wrestling made it,
but it together and it had all these wrestlers on it. Um, you know,
Brandon sleigh Trevell dialogue, Neveah was my teammate, a lot of different,
you know, it was on that video.
And I watched that while I was training for the 2012 Olympics,
trying to make the team. And that video stays with me,
changed my mentality or how to think,
because it really put things in perspective because you go out there and you
battle this hard match and you lose to this guy like Joe I've won
hundreds of wrestling matches. I can't remember hardly any of them.
The ones that I've lost though. I remember most of them.
Why is that? Because each one took something away from my spirit.
Somehow I remember the one, they took something away from me.
Like, I, I couldn't tell you really, um, the fights I won the MMA fights.
I can really, you know, I don't really care that much about I win and I move on,
but the one that I lost, oh yeah, I know exactly why I knew what happened.
I knew I, you know, what happened in that fight, right?